Copyright (c) 1998-1999 NeoSoft, Inc.

For licensing information, see the file neoXldap.c and/or the COPYRIGHT
file contained in the directory you found this file.

This directory contains an extension to Tcl to interface with an
LDAP server.  While this software is being released to the OpenLDAP
community, it is the authors' intention that support continue (and
be added) for other client libraries as well.  As time goes on, it
is expected that code will converge rather than diverge.

Support is provided for University of Michigan LDAP version 3.3,
OpenLDAP, and Netscape.  The default configuration supports
OpenLDAP 1.2.4 and above.

OpenLDAP 2.x is supported, but there is not yet any support for
using SASL or TLS.  There may be interface changes in the LDAP API
which the author is unaware of (a leak was recently fixed for the
return values of ldap_first/next_attribute() calls).

It uses GNU autoconf.  It builds and installs without requiring
parallel directories, but it does require that Tcl and Extended Tcl
are installed in the directory pointed to by --prefix (/usr/local
by default).

For further info, try "./configure --help".

For example, I run:

    ./configure  --prefix=/opt/neotcl --enable-shared \
	--with-ldap=/usr/local/ldap

Remember that --prefix must be the same prefix used when building
and installint Tcl.

Netscape configuration has not been well tested, and you may have to
play with the resulting Makefile to get it to work.  In particular,
you will probably need to modify the LDAP_LIBFLAGS.  However, the
C code itself is reasonably well tested with Netscape.

This module will install a regular shell (ldaptclsh) a windowing
shell (ldapwish) a library, a pkgIndex.tcl, and a manpage (ldap.n).

If your Tcl installation has been configured with --enable-shared,
then you must also use --enable-shared here.

Shared libraries and Tcl packages.

If Tcl is built with --enable-shared, AND OpenLDAP (or another version
for that matter) has been build to create -llber and -lldap as shared
libaries, AND you build ldaptcl with --enable-shared, it should be
possible to run a plain Tcl interpreter (eg. tclsh8.0) and do

		package require Ldaptcl

which will install the "ldap" command into the interpreter.

You may need to set the LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable appropriately,
or use -R or -W,-rpath ld command options to resolve the search for ldap
and lber libraries.

This package was test built on a Alpha OSF4.0e with the native C
compiler.

Please email comments or bug fixes to openldap-devel@OpenLDAP.org,
or to kunkee@OpenLDAP.org.  I would also like to know if you are
using this interface, so I invite you to drop me an email if you do.
